docs: :memo: add code along on renaming, editing, and moving files to `working-with-files` (#66)
rostools/github-intro: sessions/working-with-files.qmd

{{< text_snippet sticky_up >}}

## Rename, edit, and move the soup recipe to a new folder

Now that we have added a couple of recipes to the repository, we'll
take a look at how to rename, edit, and move files in repositories on
GitHub.

Let's imagine that we want to add more recipes to the repository in
the future. To keep things organised, we want our recipes to have
descriptive names and content. We also want to create some folders to
group similar recipes together.

Let's start by doing this with the soup recipe we added earlier.

### Rename `soup.md`

> Let's start by renaming the `soup.md` file. We'll to the `soup.md` file in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start by renaming the `soup.md` file. We'll go to the `soup.md` file in
```

the repository by clicking on it in the "Code" tab. Then, we'll click the
pencil icon on the top-right side of the page to edit the file.

On the top-left side of the page, we'll see the name of the file. Let's click
on the name and rename the file to `tomato-soup.md`. Remember to keep
the `.md` file extension.

> Once we have renamed the file, let's click the green "Commit changes" button
> and commit the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have renamed the file, click the "Commit changes" button on the right side of the page. When the commit message box pops up, write in the message something like: "renamed file to something more specific". Then click the "Commit changes" button on the bottom of the message box.
```

Workshop material needs to be really precise to the tasks we're doing. Since this is on Git and GitHub, we need to be detailed about all the steps.

Since we'll repeat this many times, might be worth it to consider using `{{< var >}}` shortcodes to insert repeated text.

We also should be careful about saying colours. On my computer, I have it as blue (colour blind friendly).

Reviewer: I'll make an issue to discuss this. We don't need to commit to it immediately :relaxed:

Author: In the `github-commit` variable that I just added, I don’t mention the colour of the buttons 🟢

### Edit the content of `tomato-soup.md`

When we added the content of the file, you might have noticed that it
said "Ingredients for soup" on the first line. This is a bit generic, so
let's change it.

Like before, we'll click the `tomato-soup.md` file in the "Code" tab of the
repository to open it and click the pencil icon on the top-right side of
the page.

> Now, let's change the first line of the file to "Ingredients for tomato soup".
> 
> Once we've made the changes, let's commit them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's revise the first line of the file to be "Ingredients for tomato soup".
Once we've made the changes, let's commit them. Click the "Commit changes" 
button on the top-right of the page. Then when the message box pops up, 
write in the commit message "clarify the ingredients are for tomato soup".
Then click the "Commit changes" button on the bottom of the pop-up so that
the changes get saved to the history.
```

### Move `tomato-soup.md` to a new `soups/` folder

Next, let's move the `tomato-soup.md` file to a new `soups/` folder.

As before, we'll click the `tomato-soup.md` file to open it and click the
pencil icon on the top-right side of the page.

Now, let's change the path of the file to a new folder in the repository, by
adding `soups/` before the file name like so: `soups/tomato-soup.md`.
Remember to use `/` between the folder name and the file name.

> This will both create a new folder called `soups/` and move the
> `tomato-soup.md` file into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will both create a new folder called `soups/` that will then move the
`tomato-soup.md` file into it.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This will create a new folder called `soups/` and then move the
`tomato-soup.md` file into it.
```

::: callout-tip
## Fixing a folder name after typing slash `/`

You might have noticed that once we add the slash `/` after the folder
name, GitHub moves the cursor to the end of the file path, to the file
name. This might make it seem like we can't go back to the folder name
and correct it if we make a typo or change our mind about the name.

However, we can use the backspace key to remove the `/` which leads
the cursor back to the folder name. Now, we can change the folder name
as we like :partying_face:
:::

> Let's click the green "Commit changes" button and commit the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now click the "Commit changes" button on the top-right side of the page to 
open the commit message pop-up. In the commit message section, type out a
message of: "moved file into soups folder". Then click the "Commit changes"
button on the bottom of the pop-up.
```

{{< text_snippet sticky_up >}}

## Rename, edit, and move the soup recipe to a new folder

Now that we have added a couple of recipes to the repository, we'll take
a look at how to rename, edit, and move files in repositories on GitHub.

Let's imagine that we want to add more recipes to the repository in the
future. To keep things organised, we want our recipes to have
descriptive names and content. We also want to create some folders to
group similar recipes together.

Let's start by doing this with the soup recipe we added earlier.

### Rename `soup.md`

Let's start by renaming the `soup.md` file. We'll go to the `soup.md`
file in the repository by clicking on it in the "Code" tab. Then, we'll
click the pencil icon on the top-right side of the page to edit the
file.

On the top-left side of the page, we'll see the name of the file. Let's
click on the name and rename the file to `tomato-soup.md`. Remember to
keep the `.md` file extension.

Once we have renamed the file, let's commit the changes.
{{< var github-commit >}}

::: callout-tip
A descriptive commit message for these changes could be "Rename soup

> recipe to tomato soup"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recipe to tomato soup".
```

:::

### Move `tomato-soup.md` to a new `soups/` folder

Next, let's move the `tomato-soup.md` file to a new `soups/` folder.

As before, we'll click the `tomato-soup.md` file to open it and click
the pencil icon on the top-right side of the page.

Now, let's change the path of the file to a new folder in the
repository, by adding `soups/` before the file name like so:
`soups/tomato-soup.md`. Remember to use `/` between the folder name and
the file name.

This will create a new folder called `soups/` and then move the
`tomato-soup.md` file into it.

::: callout-tip
## Fixing a folder name after typing slash `/`

You might have noticed that once we add the slash `/` after the folder
name, GitHub moves the cursor to the end of the file path, to the file
name. This might make it seem like we can't go back to the folder name
and correct it if we make a typo or change our mind about the name.

However, we can use the backspace key to remove the `/` which leads the
cursor back to the folder name. Now, we can change the folder name as we
like :partying_face:
:::

{{< var github-commit >}}

::: callout-tip
A descriptive message for these changes could be "Move tomato soup file

> into the soups folder"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into the soups folder".
```

{{< text_snippet sticky_up >}}

## Rename, edit, and move the soup recipe to a new folder

> Now that you have added a couple of recipes to your repository, we'll
> take a look at how you rename, edit, and move files in repositories on
> GitHub.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that we have added a couple of recipes to the repository, we'll
take a look at how to rename, edit, and move files in repositories on
GitHub.
```

> Let's imagine that you want to add more recipes to your repository in
> the future. To keep things organised, you want your recipes to have
> descriptive names and content. You also want to create some folders to
> group similar recipes together.
> 
> Let's start by doing this with the soup recipe you added earlier.

Author: ```suggestion
Let's imagine that we want to add more recipes to the repository in
the future. To keep things organised, we want our recipes to have
descriptive names and content. We also want to create some folders to
group similar recipes together.

Let's start by doing this with the soup recipe we added earlier.
```

### Rename `soup.md`

> Let's start by renaming the `soup.md` file. Go to the `soup.md` file in
> your repository by clicking on it in the "Code" tab. Then, click the
> pencil icon on the top-right side of the page to edit the file.

Author: ```suggestion
Let's start by renaming the `soup.md` file. We'll to the `soup.md` file in
the repository by clicking on it in the "Code" tab. Then, we'll click the
pencil icon on the top-right side of the page to edit the file.
```

On the top-left side of the page, you'll see the name of the file. Click
on the name and rename the file to `tomato-soup.md`. Remember to keep
the `.md` file extension.

Once you have renamed the file, click the green "Commit changes" button
and commit the changes.

### Edit the content of `tomato-soup.md`

When we added the content of the file, you might have noticed that it
said "Ingredients for soup" on the first line. This is a bit generic, so
let's change it.

> Like before, click the `tomato-soup.md` file in the "Code" tab of your

Author: ```suggestion
Like before, we'll click the `tomato-soup.md` file in the "Code" tab of the
```

repository to open it and click the pencil icon on the top-right side of
the page.

> Now, change the first line of the file to "Ingredients for tomato soup".

Author: ```suggestion
Now, let's change the first line of the file to "Ingredients for tomato soup".
```

Once you have made the changes, commit the changes.

### Move `tomato-soup.md` to a new `soups/` folder

Next, let's move the `tomato-soup.md` file to a new `soups/` folder.

> As before, click the `tomato-soup.md` file to open it and click the

Author: ```suggestion
As before, we'll click the `tomato-soup.md` file to open it and click the
```

pencil icon on the top-right side of the page.

> Now, change the path of the file to a new folder in your repository, by

Author: ```suggestion
Now, let's change the path of the file to a new folder in the repository, by
```

adding `soups/` before the file name like so: `soups/tomato-soup.md`.
Remember to use `/` between the folder name and the file name.

This will both create a new folder called `soups/` and move the
`tomato-soup.md` file into it.

::: callout-tip
## Fixing a folder name after typing slash `/`

> You might have noticed that once you add the slash `/` after the folder

Author: ```suggestion
You might have noticed that once we add the slash `/` after the folder
```

name, GitHub moves the cursor to the end of the file path, to the file
name. This might make it seem like you can't go back to the folder name
and correct it if you make a typo or change your mind about the name.

However, you can use the backspace key to remove the `/` which leads
your cursor back to the folder name. Now, you can change the folder name
as you like :partying_face:
:::

> Click the green "Commit changes" button to commit the changes.

Author: ```suggestion
Let's click the green "Commit changes" button and commit the changes.
```

> You have now renamed the soup recipe file, edited its content, and moved
> it to a new folder in your repository! :bowl_with_spoon: :tomato:

Author: ```suggestion
We have now renamed the soup recipe file, edited its content, and moved
it to a new folder in your repository! :bowl_with_spoon: :tomato:
```

::: callout-tip
## Rename, edit, and move files in the same step

> You can rename, edit, and move files in the same step if you want to.
> However, for practice and clarity in the history, we've split the steps
> into first renaming the file *then* moving it to a new folder.

Author: ```suggestion
It is possible to rename, edit, and move files in the same step if you want to.
However, for practice and clarity in the history, we've split the steps
into first renaming the file *then* moving it to a new folder.
```
